Well, what did Jesus mean when he said, I give you my peace?
What was the peace that Jesus gave to his disciples?
Well, the watchtower of 2009, October 15, page 9,
had a very, very nice definition. Here's what it said.
The peace that Christ leaves with his disciples
is the inner calm they experience when they feel that they are loved
and approved by Jehovah God and his beloved Son.
Now, did you get that definition?
The inner calm that they experience when they feel that they are loved
and approved by Jehovah God and his beloved Son.
What a beautiful definition.
And even more so, what a beautiful gift is the peace that Jesus gives
to all of those who are his true disciples.
But what if we begin to feel that we're losing our inner peace?
What can we do to get it back and then to maintain it?
Well, those are important questions.
Let's talk in our discussion this morning about three things
that could cause us to begin to lose that feeling of inner peace.
Now, here's the first one.
Doubting that Jehovah really loves and approves us.
You know, when we go through periods of discouragement
or perhaps periods of increased anxiety,
we may begin to feel that really no one loves us,
that no one appreciates us.
And that can even extend to Jehovah.
We begin to feel, well, I don't even think Jehovah loves me anymore.
Well, of course, that's just exactly what Satan the devil wants us to think.
Because if we convince ourselves that Jehovah doesn't love us and he doesn't approve us,
well, then we're going to give up.
We're not going to continue on in our race for life.
Well, how can we fight back against this?
Well, we have to reassure ourselves that Jehovah really does love us.
We have to sense how precious we are to God.
Now, let's just think about one simple thought that might encourage us along this way.
Let's go in our Bibles.
Let's look at first Chronicles chapter 28 and verse 9.
Now, you'll notice about midway down the verse,
it says,
Jehovah searches through all hearts
and he discerns every inclination of the thoughts.
Now, think about that.
Now, as Jehovah is searching through all the hearts that are on this planet,
can you imagine the horrible things that Jehovah sees?
But what about when Jehovah comes to a heart like yours?
When he sees a heart that has love for him, that is in fear of him?
Well, now, can you imagine how joyful Jehovah is to see a heart like that?
Well, you might say to yourself,
I'm not important.
I'm not special.
I don't do anything that's noteworthy.
Why would Jehovah take notice of me?
Well, again, let's look at another simple thought that might encourage you.
It's Malachi chapter 3 and verse 16.
Now, just notice what it says here.
At that time, those who feared Jehovah spoke with one another,
each one with his companion.
And Jehovah kept paying attention and listening.
And a book of remembrance was written before him for those fearing Jehovah
and for those meditating on his name.
Now, when we read this verse,
did you notice that these ones that Jehovah noticed were doing anything major or profound or outstanding?
Well, the verse just says that those who were in fear of Jehovah spoke with one another.
Well, that's what we do all day long, isn't it?
Maybe it's via Zoom,
but we're constantly speaking with one another about our love for God.
Well, Jehovah pays attention.
And what does he do?
Well, the verse goes on to say that he writes the names of those who are fearing him,
those meditating on his name, he writes them in his book of remembrance, his book of life.
How wonderful, how amazing that Jehovah would take care to notice us.
So what's the point?
Brothers, you don't have to do anything major, profound, outstanding.
If you fear God, if you love him, Jehovah loves you.
He views you as someone precious.
So accept, accept Jehovah's love.
Don't fight it.
Don't think of all the reasons why you can't be loved by God.
Accept it.
And when those anxious thoughts flood into your mind,
and you begin to doubt your value,
and you begin to feel I'm just not worthless,
or I don't have any value with Jehovah,
well, follow the advice here in Philippians chapter four.
Now, this is a well-known scripture, but we need to keep reading it,
because this is a recipe for success.
Philippians chapter four, verse six.
It says, do not be anxious over anything,
but in everything by prayer and supplication,
along with Thanksgiving,
let your petitions be made known to God.
Well, what's the point?
You see, brothers, during these times of pandemic,
when there are so many trials going on in our lives,
we may feel an increased amount of anxiety,
we have to pour out our heart to Jehovah.
It's not just a matter of saying,
Jehovah, I'm feeling anxious,
but we need to linger in prayer,
and really talk to Jehovah about how we're feeling,
really express all the fears,
all the concerns that we have.
But then, do you notice that other detail in verse six?
It says, along with Thanksgiving.
So we have to take time to thank Jehovah for all our blessings.
You know, if you start in prayer to thank Jehovah
for all the blessings you have in your life,
it's going to take you some time,
because really, we have so many blessings
when we just take time to ponder them and thank Jehovah.
Well, when we do that,
what happens according to verse seven?
We experience that peace of God,
that inner peace that calms those anxious feelings.
What's the second thing that can rob us of our inner peace?
It's comparing ourselves with others.
You know, this really can be another form of questioning
Jehovah's love for us.
You know, it can be like saying,
I think Jehovah loves that brother more than me.
I see that brother or that sister,
they have privileges I don't have.
So maybe Jehovah doesn't love me as much as he loves them.
Well, that's another recipe for disaster, isn't it?
Maybe we grew up in a situation where we were always
compared with others.
Did your parents say to you things like,
why can't you be like your brother?
Why can't you be like brother elder's son?
Well, if we listen to that all the time we were growing up,
maybe we have that tendency now to compare ourselves with others.
But what is the principle of Galatians chapter six and verse four?
It tells us that we should examine our own actions.
And then we'll have a cause for rejoicing in regard to ourselves alone
and not in comparison with the other person.
What's the point?
We have to set our own personal goals.
We have to get joy and satisfaction from reaching those goals
and see the gifts that Jehovah has given us
and then use those gifts to strengthen and encourage and build up others.
In that way, you see, we stop comparing ourselves with others
and we find joy in seeing what we have and what we can give to Jehovah
and to our brothers and sisters.
It helps us to maintain our inner peace.
But then here's the last one.
Filling our minds with negative information.
Well, we always want to keep on the watch.
That's true.
But a steady diet of the sad, divisive, angry, hate-filled information
that just is flooding the news media today can begin to wear us down.
And we can begin to feel our inner peace going away
because of all of this negative information.
Well, what do we need to do?
Well, we might have to turn it off.
We might have to put a limit on how much we watch.
But at the same time, we have to fill our minds with positive, encouraging ideas.
In Psalm 94 and verse 19, do you remember what Jehovah promised here?
Look at Psalm 94 and verse 19.
It says, when anxieties overwhelmed me, you comforted and soothed me.